# Spectacular Backend Service
This component acts as a [Backend Service](../docs/design/architecture.md#backend-service) that supports the UI for Spectacular and is the "brains" of the tool. It encapsulates almost all the logic behind most of Spectacular's features and functionality.

## Config
The backend project requires the following configuration values to be set as Environment Variables before starting the application:
- `GITHUB_APP_ID` - The `App ID` of the GitHub App you have created for your instance of Spectacular
- `GITHUB_APP_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE_PATH` - The file path to a private key generated by GitHub for your GitHub App for signing access token requests
- `JWT_SHARED_SECRET` - The secret key shared with the [User Authentication Service](../docs/design/architecture.md#user-authentication-service) for validating JWTs sent in each API request from the user's client agent.

The following configuration values can also be changed from their defaults:
- `GITHUB_API_ROOT_URL` - The root/base url or the GitHup API (defaults to `https://api.github.com`)
- `JWT_COOKIE_NAME` - The cookie name shared with the [User Authentication Service](../docs/design/architecture.md#user-authentication-service) for storing user JWTs on the user's client agent and in each API request (defaults to `jwt_token`)

## Building
This application uses the [Gradle](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/userguide.html) build tool to provide the following key tasks (ensure your JAVA_HOME environment variable is set to the location of your Java 11 JDK):
#### Running the Application
```
./gradlew bootRun
```
#### Test the Application
```
./gradlew check
```

## Design Decisions
### Architecture Pattern
The objects in this project could be organised horizontally using the following conceptual layers:
- A RESTful API layer to expose functionality publicly
- A service layer containing all the logic required to fulfil each API request
- Domain model layer representing the tools [Domain Model](../docs/design/domain-modal.md)
- DTOs used for different API resources
- Client layer for making API requests to other resources like GitHub's API

However the project is organised vertically by the domain concerns instead, for example:
- Catalogues
- Files
- PullRequests
- Specs
- Security

### Architecture Decisions
This project has been built with the following architectural design decisions in mind:
- This component is stateless to allow easy horizontal scaling. No session state will be kept. All state needed to perform an operation needs to be sent by the client or be retrieved from another service. 

### Technology Choices
#### Implementation
This service is implemented as a Java 11 application using the [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot) framework.

#### Security
Client authorisation to the REST API endpoints is controlled using the [Spring Security](https://spring.io/projects/spring-security) framework and is configured as an OAuth2 Resource Server accepting JWTs. The JWTs are generated for the client by the [User Authentication Service](../docs/design/architecture.md#user-authentication-service) and using the `HS512` signing algorithm.

#### REST Client
To make calls to other RESTful APIs, this service uses the Spring framework's RestTemplate backed by Apache HttpComponent's [HttpClient](https://hc.apache.org/httpcomponents-client-ga/) configured to cache responses in memory.

#### Build Tooling
This Java project is built using [Gradle](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/userguide.html).

#### Testing
This projected is tested using two methods:
- Unit tests to test code level units
- "In Process" integration tests to test the fully integrated application in the same process as the test runner

The unit and integration tests for this project have been written using the [Spock](http://spockframework.org/) testing framework and Groovy.

#### Code Style
[CheckStyle](https://checkstyle.org/) is used to add a code quality check step to the gradle build. The default [Google Java Style](https://github.com/checkstyle/checkstyle/blob/master/src/main/resources/google_checks.xml) checks are used.
